in this video we're going to look at the
benefits and usage of storage account
resources now the good old storage
account is one of the most critical
types of resource we have in
Asia not only will we use a storage
account directly as part of our
application architectures our
configurations but it actually forms the
basis of a lot of the other Azure
services that we think offer far greater
types of
capability when we look at what a
storage account actually is it has a lot
of the same characteristics as other
types of aure resource for example it
has a certain
name and it lives within a resource
Group also like most Azure resources it
lives within a specific region now when
we pick the region that we want for our
storage account we're going to want to
consider well what is using that storage
account is it being used by certain
compute resource is it maybe connecting
to a type of database for maybe backups
or some type of other storage we'd want
to have them close to each other ideally
the same region to reduce the
latency that will then give us a better
set of performance so if we quickly
jumped over and started to actually look
at what happens when we create a storage
account we can see that the initial
options are well yes I have to pick that
subscription the resource Group and then
I give it a name and I give it a
region so those are those core basic
types of actions and then we can see we
have this
concept of
performance now we saw here there were
two different types of performance
and for our
performance very often we're going to
pick the idea of
standard now when we use a standard
performance type storage account is
actually behind the scenes going to be a
general purpose
V2 this brings the best capabilities of
some of the earlier types of storage
accounts such just general purpose fee1
some of the basic blob storage accounts
and it gives us a whole set of different
types of service that we can
leverage now we can also pick the option
here instead of standard I can do
premium now as the name suggests I'm
going to pay more for the types of
service that I use here and whereas
general purpose V2 offers many different
types of service with premium it offers
a single type of service this could be
block blob it could be page
blob so both of these are blob or it can
be files so it's going to give me a
higher performance when I pick this
option and it may also expose other
types of functionality to me and once
again if we jump over super quickly to
this we can see that right now I've just
picked standard and I don't really get
any a choices it's telling me it's going
to be a general purpose V2 account as
soon as I pick premium well now I have
to tell it well what type of service am
I going to use here and I can only use
one of them within the premium do I want
page blob block blob or file
shares so it's very important that I
need to understand what is the
functionality I need and what is the
performance I need that will drive well
what is that performance tier I actually
need to
pick now the next thing we're going to
select is our redundancy option
obviously our storage is going to be
very important we're storing the state
of our application so it needs to be
very resilient so when we think of our
redundancy we have a number of different
options now this is easier if we break
this down and we look at well really
what is is a region so I can think about
I've got a region
one and behind the scenes most regions
are made up of availability
zones and in a certain subscription I'll
always see three availability zones they
have independent cooling
networking um Power types of
capabilities so if I imagine for example
I have three availability zones
and I pick the type of storage account
that I want to have for its redundancy
now the first one I could pick we call
it locally redundant storage now with
locally redundant storage there's always
three copies of my data but they're in
the same building they're in with the
same cluster of the storage so I could
imagine for example they are all living
within a certain building so my
redundancy is what it not happened to
that building my data is just not
available to me so the next option we
can
do providing the region supports
availability zones is we have the option
of doing
zrs now there's still three copies of
your data but now those three copies of
the
data are spread over the three
availability zones see if I think from a
redundancy perspective now I've got
resiliency from something happening to
any individual structure and my data hey
I still have a nice safe copy of my
data and then we can move into the idea
that Azure regions typically are paired
so there's a paired
region so this is its pair I don't get
to pick these they are paired as part of
the Azure structure
and they have sets of buildings over
here as well I'm just going to draw
one and now what I can do is we open up
a new set of types of storage so one of
them would be GRS now with GRS there's
still three copies of my data within a
certain facility in the primary site but
then that data is
asynchronously replicated where there
are three copies stored as well so in
this world with
GRS I have three in the original region
and then three in the PIR region so in
total I have six copies of my
data now a variant on this is we can
have
gzrs which is the name suggests is a
combination of Zone redundant storage so
I have my three copies in the primary
region spread over the three
availability Zone
where it is then replicated again
asynchronously we always want
asynchronous replication between regions
because there's a distance and if it was
synchronous I I can't acknowledge the
operation to the application that's
performing the operation there'd be a
long delay so it would really impact my
performance and then it's all stored in
the same cluster on the other side so
it's not Zone redundant in the paired
region so once again there are three +
three copies of
this now there is an option and we'll
see this if we jump over and actually
look now right now if we look at the
type it's premium and when we look at
premium notice I only actually have lrs
and
zrs if I change it back to
standard well now suddenly I have all of
my options available lrs
zrs
GRS and g z
RS if I pick any of the Geo redundant
options you then get this extra option
available give me read access to
data in that paired region so I don't
have to do this but basically this then
makes it kind of this read access option
so now what would happen if I select
That I optionally Can Say Hey I want it
to be read access to the
copy and then I get a separate endpoint
a secondary endpoint for my storage
account where I can actually go and read
now that works for blob it works for
cues it works for tables I do not get
read access when I use the files service
and again we're going to look at what
all of these services
are now the other thing you probably
noticed here is when it was the standard
performance I had all of these options
available to me so if I'm standard
performance I can do lrs zrs GRS gzrs
all of those are
available if I do
premium there is no Geo redundant option
I can only do lrs or zrs so I get a
subset of those different options of
available depending on what I pick now
technically this is a more advanced
concept but if I needed to replicate
data to the non-paired region I want to
be more specific there is something
called object level
replication and that for my blobs would
let me replicate a particular container
to a container in a different storage
account which could be another region it
doesn't matter but that's a more
advanced concept that's not something
you're going to need to actually
understand which is probably a nice
thing
okay so those are the core really the
attributes and there are more advanced
attributes but you don't need to know
them as part of this
exam so once I've understand the
redundancy and the performance we then
have different types of service
available within our storage account so
if we now think of the different
services that I can leverage and we've
touched on some of these
already but probably one of the biggest
ones we're ever going to talk about is
blob binary large object basically any
type of data I want to store there are
different types of blob the most popular
one we're going to Leverage is something
called a block
blob and with a block blob it's just
stored in these multiple blocks hence
the name it lives in a
container and while we within the
container might see a file like
structure there is no structure in
reality any folders we see are virtual
it just becomes part of the name of the
blob we actually put in there this means
if we actually try and move blobs
between these virtual folders it's
actually a copy and a delete operation
so it's fairly slow there's no true
option of that so when we think of this
block blob it's actually what we call a
flat Nam space there is no true
hierarchy
now one of the options we get when we
create our storage account is we can
enable a hierarchical nam space so this
then becomes the aure data Lake storage
Gen 2 so this now gives me a
hierarchical namespace now what that
means is I get true
directories so I can actually truly move
things around I get this Advanced type
of AAL Access Control list I
commissionings I can support different
types of API so that's an option I get
when I actually go and create the
storage
account also in addition to block we
have page so I can have a
page type of blob this is very good for
random types of access when I want to be
able to perform that and then we have a
pend so append as the name suggests
that's very good when we want to go and
add additional data for example if it
was a log file that would be a great use
for
that now within block
blobs we also have a concept called
access
tiers So within
here we have access
tiers and this is useful if you think
about I may have very different
requirements in terms of storing my data
and how often I actually want to
interact with
it and so I can think about I have these
dimensions of the amount of data I want
to store so the
capacity and then the actual
operations I'm performing against it and
so what these access tiers let me do for
Block Bob is well we have the idea of a
hot tier so with a hot tier this is for
data I want to store and access a
lot we then have the option of a call
tier this is data that hey I'm
interacting with but it's less
frequently you then have the option of a
cold tier which is data I very
infrequently need to access but if I do
need to access it I need it there
immediately to me and then
finally we have this concept of pick a
new color for this do there an archive
tier and what's interesting about the
archive tier it's actually
offline I can't interact with that
content um if I just want to go and read
the file I would have to rehydrate it
back into one of the other tiers now if
we jump over for a second let's go and
look at some storage accounts we
actually
have within a single storage account if
I look at my
containers notice I have multiple
containers and I could see a particular
container notice we have access
here and within that same container I
have some hot files it's inferred
because hot is the default I have some
Co
files I have some cold
then I have one in archive as well and
for any of the other tiers so I could
just go
and look at one of these files I could
download the file notice I have access
to it I could open the file up and when
I've opened that file up it's a picture
of my dog
sleeping but if I try to do the same
thing to a file that is
archived notice there is no option to
download the Bob is currently archived
and cannot be downloaded rehydrate
it so I'd have to change the tier and
bring it back into another tier so then
I could access it and one of the reasons
we have all these tiers is if we were to
look for
example if we look at the price to store
this is the capacity so premium is by
far the most
expensive and then it gets cheaper from
hot to cool to cold to Archive so super
super cheap by time you get to Archive
so I pay more the hotter the tier is
however I pay less for the actual
operations against it so premium is
really cheap hot is very cheap cool gets
a bit more expensive cold is even more
expensive archive I then have to pay
money to actually go bring it
back and so I'm having this
tradeoff of well what is my
anticipated interactions with the
data
versus well hey maybe I just want to
store it as cheaply as possible so I pay
the
most for
hot but I pay the least for the
operations whereas with archive I pay
the least for the
storage but I pay the most for the
operations and it obviously um it goes
that route so I would need to take a
little bit of time to understand my
usage patterns and how often I intend to
interact with it and then I could pick
the right tier based on what is my
anticipated use case so again cold is
really good where I barely intend to
ever interact with it but if I do need
to interact with it I need it straight
away could be medical records for
example archive is really good where I
need to keep the data there wouldn't be
an immediate need to interact I could
wait 12 hours and I could just go and
rehydrate it so it's that balancing um
as part of that now there are minimum
times I have to keep the data in the
tier so for archive I have have to keep
it for 180 days or I pay an early
deletion fee basically I'd have to pay
for the remaining time that I had it
there minus 180 um for the cold I have
to keep it there for 90 days and for the
corol I have to keep it for 30 days
there is no minimum time for hot so
that's another thing to
consider well how long am I going to
need that data for I wouldn't want to go
and put it in cold to save money then I
only need it there for a week so I would
consider that minimum time as well
I
mentioned we had page which is very good
for random access and in the early days
of AIA the diss we would create for our
virtual machines we would store in page
blobs but then I would have to worry
about well the storage accounts how many
discs I could have within a storage
account and so what was introduced was
the concept of a managed disk so now we
have this azure resource called a dis
and behind the scenes it is using page
blobs and it's abstracting away the
storage accounts I don't see them at all
and once again as you would expect
there's different
types of disk and then I can pick a
certain
capacity now when I think of the
different types of dis that are
available they have different
capabilities as well and they have
different lat es I the the time a
certain operation would take so at the
lowest level you have a standard hard
disk drive so that's the cheapest but
it's also got the lowest performance and
the highest latencies then you have a
standard
SSD then you have a
premium
SSD then they introduced a new type then
they introduced a premium SSD
V2 and then we have the concept of an
ultra
disc so you have all of these different
capabilities for these different types
of discs and for these discs based on
the capacity the performance kind of
scales linearly as the bigger the
capacity of the disc well the
performance increases as well for both
the um standard SSD and the premium
SSD there is a burst
capability so for a limited amount of
time you can actually get some higher
performance than typically comes with
the disc for premium
SSD you can also set a different
performance
tier this might be useful because if the
performance scales with the size of the
disc imagine a scenario I have a premium
disc and it's a certain size so I get a
certain performance but I need a higher
performance now you might say we just
make the disc bigger and then I would
get a higher performance but you can
never shrink a disc and so what this
lets me do is I could change the
performance of the disc higher for a
period of time and then I could shrink
the performance again because I never
resized the disc
with the premium SSD V2 and the
ultra they actually have separate
iops uh input output operations per
second and throughput from the capacity
and I can also
dynamically change them which means I
could modify the values while the dis is
being used by something so I have this
huge range of different capabilities and
huge ranges is of performance so if I go
and look at manage
discs well here you can
see the concept of hey look at premium
SSD you can see well look I get bursting
you can see I get this certain amount of
burst capability over
here I get a certain number in Brackets
that I can burst to it's for the the
smaller size
discs so I get this credit based
bursting
there's
also premium
sdv2 where now the performance doesn't
scale so with these premium ssds the
performance notice this column is going
up as the size goes
up well on the premium SSD V2 it
doesn't I just pay a certain amount for
the iops and I pay a certain amount for
the throughput standard SSD once
again let's pick a different
region standard SSD once again
performance goes up with the size also
the standard hard dis
Drive price goes up for the size Ultra
disk hey I pay for the iops and the
throughput so the the pricing is
different depending on the type of disc
and what's kind of nice here if I was to
jump over and look at my discs for a
second I just create
one you'll notice I get to pick down
here in the bottom the
size and for the regular here you can
see it's a premium SSD the performance
changes based on the size but notice it
also shows me a performance tier I could
pick a higher performance than the size
if I wanted the higher performance
characteristics but I don't want to make
the actual disc bigger cuz then again
could shrink this in the future whereas
if I pick a standard SSD I don't have
that performance option uh standard hard
dis drive again don't get that option
but both premium SSD
V2 and the ultra disc I just pick the
capacity and then I pick the iops and
the through Port I want and once again I
could dynamically change those at any
time that's uh one of the very nice
things and again the latency get smaller
here so we get to sub millisecond with
the premium SSD V2 and the ultra and I
think the ultra is sub half millisecond
so it's very very low latencies when I
start talking about those types of
service and discs are what we'll use
with our compute services like virtual
machines and Azure kubernetes services I
don't want to deal with storage accounts
behind the
scenes one of the other big types of
service we get here is
files now with files we're offering a
storage protocol so typically this is
going to be
SMB which we talk to very often from
Windows clients but it does also support
NFS now this is typically used by Linux
but for NFS this has to be a
premium performance T so I can't general
purpose V2 I would have had to say hey I
want premium and I would have picked
files of the type and then I can do this
NFS set of capability but basically I'm
creating these file
shares that I can then go and connect to
and leverage for SMB it can also
integrate with active directory so Cur
based
authentication and one of the really
nice capabilities I can actually do here
is consider for
example I have my Azure cloud
so I'm in
azzure and I create an Azure file share
so now I've got a
share and this will be
SMB well now imagine I have on
premises so now imagine I have on
premises and I have Windows File
shares I can use a technology called
Azure
files sync and what this does is I I
have one Cloud endpoint and I think up
to a 100 server endpoints and what this
will actually do is via the file
share it will keep these all
synchronized with each other so I can
have many file servers and they would
synchronize via the Azure file share
this might replace something like
distributed file system
application and an optional benefit here
is imagine I had data that I didn't use
very often on these file servers well it
could actually go and tear
it off to the cloud so this means it
wouldn't store it on the file share
anymore but it would still have like a a
shortcut so if I looked at the file
share I would see the data but in
reality it's actually not storing it and
if I Tred to access it it would
redownload it it would pull it down
so Azure file sync can be a great
solution when I have Windows File
servers I want to keep them synchronized
and I want the ability to offload data
that I'm not accessing very
often another capability uh other
services we have
cues so a q is a small piece of data
that I would write in and then something
else would read it out it's called firo
First in first out I the first thing
that I wrote to it when something tried
to read would be the first thing out of
it and typically we're going to use this
for event driven workloads I.E
something is going to write this item
and then something else when it see
something written will
trigger some serverless function to pull
it off and then do something with it so
that's a very common type of solution
another thing we have is tables so
tables really just key value data
there's no
schema it will look like almost like a
database
table but there's no set schema I can
add any columns at any time I only have
to have a subset of ones I actually want
this is not getting a huge amount of
focus noise cues these days tables uh
Cosmos DB has richer functionality cues
there are other event type technologies
that we would typically leverage um
another technology I guess I should me
over here is there are static
websites now really static websites is
building on top of blob what it actually
does is it creates a special container
called Web so this
is just storing the files it has to be
static content I can't require server
side
processing and it will just make it very
easy to go and serve that content up if
I have some HTML cascading style sheets
JavaScript in my pages image files I can
just make that available super super
easy so if we jumped
over if we go back and we looked at a
storage account for a
second we actually have a very nice
storage browser that's now built into
the portal so if I select this well I
can see those blob containers again so I
can see my images exactly as we saw
before but additionally I can see that
dollar web folder I mentioned that would
be my static website where I would just
put in the content and then under my
data
management I Define that static website
like what is the
homepage what is the error document and
it will just read it from that dollar
web folder and I can just go to this
URL which is based on my storage account
name it's not going to be very
interesting at all but there's my
fascinating website that I was able to
host just from a storage
account but also if we jump back over
and look at our storage browser I could
look at my my file shares so I've got
file shares here which I could go and
access in a folder and see the
information I have cues this is my test
cue so I could add a
message so it's now added and if I did
cued a message it will just pull off
whatever that first message was and
likewise I have
tables can see I've added a few
different attributes to this but there
is no schema here I could go and create
a completely new entity I could add as
many or as few of these as I wanted I
could add a brand new property at any
time just from my particular entry I
want because again it's just all key
value pairs so that's a really great
capability that we have as part of
this the final thing I would
mention actually comes back a lot to
when I think about I have all these
different tiers of capabilities I may
want to delete data so one of the things
to help us do this is we have something
called life cycle
management now this is a free
solution and it's really just focused on
moving data between tiers and deleting
data so it's really about optimizing our
costs so I could say hey based on the LA
the created date the last modified the
access time if it's not been accessed
for so long move it down to a tier if
it's not been accessed for 400 Days just
delete it so I can do that with the life
cycle management it's free it's a fairly
simple it has very limited though
flexibility I'm creating these on a per
storage account then we also have a paid
offering the paid offering is something
called storage
tasks they work at scale so they can
perform nearly any action so I could
also do things like yes I could move but
I could set data protection
I could set immutability rules I can tag
I could undelete it has full world cards
so I could do World cards I could do
question mark for single
characters um and again it I create
these centralized policies and actions I
then apply to different storage accounts
so it has way more
scale capabilities and again I've got
those Wild Card supports so at a high
level if I just wanted to optimize
things and move stuff and delete stuff
I'll use the free life cycle management
if I have a more complex data EST state
if I have data sets I want to manage the
cost the data protection the compliance
well then I'll use storage tasks so that
was the very high level
view When I Think About Storage accounts
so if you saw a question that was like
Hey I need storage to connect to my
virtual machine or my Azure kubernetes
service well it's probably going to be a
disc I'm going to want to use my disc
capabilities I need to offer an SMB or
an NFS file share oh well I'll use Azure
file for that I need to synchronize
content between my Windows File
shares and the cloud I want to
synchronize them well Azure file
sync what capability would let me pay
different amounts of money compared to
the capacity and how often I'm interact
with it well that that would be my
access tiers so just have that base
understanding also remember again the
resiliency the GRS and the gz s give me
copies in those paired regions so now
I'm redundant even from an entire
Regional level
outage hope that helped thank you for
watching